Let's hop in and start writing some React
so that we can eventually make Padre Gino's.
So you can see here,
I'm in my complete Intro to React V9 project.
The way I'm gonna do this is I'm just gonna
make a new directory in here
and I'm just gonna start working out of that directory.
I think that's just gonna be the easiest for me.
Yeah, let's do that.
We'll call this the,
we'll just call it Padre Gino's,
because that's what we're gonna make.
Okay, and then I'm gonna open this in my VS Code editor.
So Padre Gino's,
empty directory.
We're gonna make a index.html.
Okay, and we're gonna start building React
with no build step.
So we're gonna write React in a way that
I don't know of anyone that actually writes
React without a build step,
but I wanna show you that it is actually indeed possible.
So one of my favorite cheat codes in
VS Code is that there is Emmet built in.
So I can just say HTML colon five
and then I can just hit tab
and it just generates a valid HTML document for me.
So I'm gonna do that
and I'm gonna call this Padre Gino's.
Okay, and then I'm gonna have a div that's gonna be root.
And I like to put something in here
because this will get replaced
and so if you see not rendered on the page,
you know something went wrong.
And then we're gonna put a couple of script tags on here.
So we're gonna do script,
script, source.
If I were you, I would just grab these directly
from my page here
because otherwise it's really annoying to write by hand.
Unpackage was actually created
by one of the React router authors
and it's basically just a CDN full of every NPM package.
It's really nice that you can do things like this
where you can just load things directly off of the CDN
and get started with something off of NPM
with no build step, which is kind of fun.
So unpkg.com we're getting from React 18.3.1.
UMD stands for Universal Module Definition
and we're grabbing React and React Dom.
Just a quick note on why there's two packages.
React is the universal interface for React.
So things like React Native, React 3D, React 360,
all of those use the same React package
and then the actual rendering layer underneath it
that's specific to the Dom to the browser
is called the React Dom.
So if you're ever working in a browser,
you'll always just have these two packages.
If you're working in React Native,
you'll have a different React Native toolkit
but it'll still use the same React package.
Okay, I'm gonna save that
and then I'm gonna open my terminal here
and we can do a fun little trick here
that I'll do, npx serve just like that.
It'll ask you, is it okay if I install this package?
You can say yes.
And this will actually just start serving it directly
on port 3000 here and you can see,
I'm getting this page up on localhost 3000.
There's a trillion ways to run like a local host server.
This is just a very fast one using node
but you could do php-s, there's a Python one.
You can run nginx via Docker.
You could literally just open this directly
with like command O and open it in the browser.
So we have this, it's opening on our page.
It's using serve, serve is made by Vercel
in case you were curious.
You get some nice little server logs here, kind of fun.
We have our two script tags here,
unpkg from React and React Dom
and the last one, we're gonna put one more script tag
on here and this is just gonna go to .slash source
slash app.js.
As you might imagine, we're gonna create a directory here.
We're gonna call it source
and we're gonna create a file in there
and it's gonna be called app.js.
So inside of app.js,
we're going to create our very first React component.
So we're gonna say const app equals,
I'm just gonna do an arrow function here.
If you've never seen this like fat arrow before,
this is my ligature combining, which is the font, right?
Combining an equal signs and an angle bracket.
That's what a ligature is.
I left a note in that in my setup part of the course.
If you wanna know how to do that.
Okay, and then I'm gonna return React.
Nope, not that.
Create element.
Okay, and then we're gonna put in a div.
An empty object, you also could put an all here.
Both of those are fine.
And then another React.createElement
of an H1, empty object and whatever you wanna call it.
I'm gonna call mine Padre Gino's.
Okay, then we're gonna go down here
and say const container.
We're gonna grab this, where did I put it?
This one, root, right?
So we're gonna say const container equals document.
getElementById.
Root.
Const root equals React DOM.
.createRoot.
Container.
And then we're gonna say root.render.
React.createElement app.
That's it.
That is your very first React app right there.
What do we expect to happen?
This is my favorite question before
and I do this all the time when I'm writing code.
I just sit there and before I click save
and run and see what happens, I always ask myself,
what do I expect to happen before I run over there?
Well, I have an app thing.
You might call it a component.
I don't know, if you're feeling spicy,
you could call it a component.
And it's a type of component and it returns
whatever the result of this createElement is.
I'm gonna guess that React.createElement
returns an element.
I don't know where I got that,
but it's probably a good bet there.
And there's gonna be a div.
This thing, this might be, it's like attributes.
So it's probably not gonna have like an ID
or a class or a four or anything like that on it.
And then inside of it, there's gonna be an h1
that's gonna say Padre Gino's inside of it.
This is going to be rendered inside of the root ID div
on the page.
All right, let's go see if we're right.
Pretty cool, right?
Let's see if we were actually correct.
We have a div.
This is inside of the,
let's see if I can make these dev tools a little bit bigger.
There's the ID root there, right?
That's the one that we've first put on the HTML doc
and then there's a div inside of that.
There's an h1 inside of that
and there's a Padre Gino's inside of that.
Kind of what we expected, right?
All right, you're done.
Let's call it a day.
No, I'm just kidding.
There's a few more things to React than just this.
But I'm also gonna say like, this is kind of most of React,
which is kind of cool.
Like the principle like core iteration loop
is not terribly complicated with React,
which is one of my favorite parts about it.
So, React is all about making components, right?
We made this app component that every time that you call it,
you're gonna get a div, an h1 inside of it
and a text in there that says Padre Gino's.
And right now you can see that
we're using create element again, the exact same one.
Here we gave it a string, right?
And that gave us the actual literal div tag on the page.
So, we have the div, we have the h1
and then we have this component.
I like to compare this to like a stamp, right?
So we made this app stamp
and now we can go stamp it as many times as we want, right?
Because it's a reusable component.
You can imagine you have a pizza one
because that's what we're literally about to create
here in just a minute.
And if you have five different types of pizza,
you can stamp it out five different times,
but you're creating your little stamp here.
And then what create element does,
the only thing that it does
is it's just like stamps the stamp once, right?
So, I'm calling the react.createElement here with app
and I'm just saying, hey,
instead of root, go stamp app once, right?
And you get an instance of the class
or an instance of the component.
So, element instance,
you can kind of associate those two words together.
Component, class,
If you're an object oriented programmer,
that'll make a lot of sense to you.
If you're not, you're like those,
you're just saying words now
and making like me feel weird, right?
I get it.
Anyway, app reusable component.
That's the part that you really wanna take away from this.